out_s3: add description of parquet compression (#1380)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: pipeline/outputs/s3.md

> | compression                      | Compression type for S3 objects. 'gzip' and 'parquet' are currently the only supported value by default. If Apache Arrow support was enabled at compile time, you can also use 'arrow'. If columnify command is installed, you can also compress as parquet format. For gzip compression, the Content-Encoding HTTP Header will be set to 'gzip'. Gzip and parquet compression can be enabled when `use_put_object` is 'on' or 'off' (PutObject and Multipart). Arrow compression can only be enabled with `use_put_object On`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | None                                    |

Reviewer: Is `none` a supported type or is it empty?

What happens if you do not set the `use_put_object` option appropriately - does it report a config failure (good) or just fail silently to do what you requested (bad)?

Author: I supposed that it means empty. But all of the documentation of out_s3 uses this habit of usage for None.

Author: > What happens if you do not set the use_put_object option appropriately - does it report a config failure (good) or just fail silently to do what you requested (bad)?

This cause just configuration error:
https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit/pull/8837/files#diff-33a08a0c450f5b99e5c77cd5a5178e09b5482f262721994256817c03ebd0cdfbR687

> | compression                      | Compression type for S3 objects. 'gzip' and 'parquet' are currently the only supported value by default. If Apache Arrow support was enabled at compile time, you can also use 'arrow'. If columnify command is installed, you can also compress as parquet format. For gzip compression, the Content-Encoding HTTP Header will be set to 'gzip'. Gzip and parquet compression can be enabled when `use_put_object` is 'on' or 'off' (PutObject and Multipart). Arrow compression can only be enabled with `use_put_object On`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | None                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| compression                      | Compression type for S3 objects. 'gzip' and 'parquet' are currently the only supported value by default. If Apache Arrow support was enabled at compile time, you can also use 'arrow'. If columnify command is installed, you can also compress as parquet format. For gzip compression, the Content-Encoding HTTP Header will be set to 'gzip'. Gzip and parquet compression can be enabled when `use_put_object` is 'on' or 'off' (PutObject and Multipart). Arrow compression can only be enabled with `use_put_object On`. A configuration error will be triggered for invalid combinations. Default is empty and no compression therefore.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                    |
```

> | compression                      | Compression type for S3 objects. 'gzip' and 'parquet' are currently the only supported value by default. If Apache Arrow support was enabled at compile time, you can also use 'arrow'. If columnify command is installed, you can also compress as parquet format. For gzip compression, the Content-Encoding HTTP Header will be set to 'gzip'. Gzip and parquet compression can be enabled when `use_put_object` is 'on' or 'off' (PutObject and Multipart). Arrow compression can only be enabled with `use_put_object On`. A configuration error will be triggered for invalid combinations. Default is empty and no compression therefore.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                    |

Reviewer 2: > columnify

I don't know what this is, can it be a link ?

Author: Good point. I'll add it with a link.

> | parquet.compression             | Compression type for parquet. 'uncompressed', 'snappy', 'gzip', 'zstd' are the supported values by default. 'lzo', 'brotli', 'lz4' are not supported for now.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | SNAPPY                                  |

Reviewer: lowercase `snappy`?

Author: No. Columnify does not accept lower cases of compression methods.

Reviewer: OK then uppercase the values in the description and let's add a note saying it must be uppercase. Otherwise people will assume you can use whatever like the rest of Fluent Bit config.

Author: I noticed that the converter which converts from lower case to upper case is already implemented in out_s3. So, I added descriptions for both of lower case and upper case should be accepted this parameter.

> | parquet.pagesize                | Page size of parquet format. Defaults to 8192 bytes (8KiB).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | 8192                                    |

Reviewer: Size in bytes right? Let's update that in these fields to be clear.

Author: Yup, size should be byte(s) unit. However, page size is a proper noun to specify size of "pagesize" for parquet compression.
ref: https://parquet.apache.org/docs/file-format/configurations/

Author: So, do we need to use _Pagesize_ instead of _Page size_ here?

Reviewer: Sorry I meant just make it clear the value you enter is in bytes - someone might put in 8Mb or something silly.

Author: Ah, got it. I'd confused what you mean. Other parameters which are related of byte(s) unit use bytes in the document. So, I added them.

| parquet.schema\_type            | Format type of schema on parquet format. Defaults to json.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | avro                                    |

> | parquet.schema\_file            | Speficy path to schema file for parquet compression.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | None                                    |

Reviewer: Typo - `specify`

Then, the records will be stored into the MinIO server.

## Usage for Parquet Compression

> For parquet compression, it needs to install [columnify](https://github.com/reproio/columnify) at runtime.

Reviewer: What does this mean? Is it in the image or part of the package? Or do we have to do it separately?

Author: It means that columnify command should be installed in the system or container at runtime. This is not building dependency but for runtime dependency.

Author: Added in https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit-docs/pull/1380/commits/0b6238b03597107d8727c82557635a77a57e03db.

> For parquet compression, it needs to install [columnify](https://github.com/reproio/columnify) in the running system or container at runtime.

Reviewer 2: I'd say, "users need to install"

Can we flesh this out into an example with the FLuent Bit image so folks can easily figure it out?

From reaing this, I don't know how to use parquet quickly

> For parquet compression, it needs to install [columnify](https://github.com/reproio/columnify) in the running system or container at runtime.

Reviewer 2: I'd say, "users need to install"

Can we flesh this out into an example with the FLuent Bit image so folks can easily figure it out?

From reaing this, I don't know how to use parquet quickly

Author: We'll plan to add an instruction of columnify command into Fluent Bit image at least.

Author: Not sure where we should put the update for using columnify command but I found that a minimal example to add columnify command in a Docker container:

```docker
FROM golang:1.22-alpine as builder

ENV ROOT=/go/src/cmd
WORKDIR ${ROOT}

RUN apk update && \
  apk add git

RUN go install github.com/reproio/columnify/cmd/columnify@latest

# hadolint ignore=DL3006
FROM debian:bullseye-slim as production

COPY --from=builder /go/bin/columnify /usr/bin/columnify
```

Author: I tested both of 1.22-bullseye and 1.22-alpine images. When using alpine images, I got succeeded to obtain non-dynamic executables for columnify.

Reviewer 2: I think either this or something like it needs to be in the docs, or linked to from the docs.

Author: I added an example for building columnify command inside containers here: https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit-docs/pull/1380/commits/94838f393644cce15c6883bc63a064661b33496f

Then, the records will be stored into the MinIO server.

## Usage for Parquet Compression

For parquet compression, users need to install to install [columnify](https://github.com/reproio/columnify) in the running system or container at runtime.

After installing that command, out_s3 can handle parquet compression:

```
[OUTPUT]
    Name  s3
    Match *
    bucket your-bucket
    Use_Put_object true
    compression parquet
    parquet.schema_file /path/to/your-schema.avsc
    parquet.compression snappy
```

### Build columnify Command

For building columnify command, users need to inherit and use Golang development container:

```
FROM golang:1-alpine as builder # Always refer the latest golang:1-aline image

ENV ROOT=/go/src/cmd
WORKDIR ${ROOT}

RUN apk update && \
  apk add git

RUN go install github.com/reproio/columnify/cmd/columnify@latest

FROM debian:bullseye-slim as production

# Put columnify command inside the PATH.

> COPY --from=builder /go/bin/columnify /usr/bin/columnify

Reviewer 2: Does the Dockerfile need a CMD or ENTRYPOINT?

Author: I think that it's not needed because it's a just example for building for columnify command.
